=head1 NAME

REST::Google - access Google REST API from Perl

=head1 VERSION

This documentation refers to REST::Google version 1.0.1

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	use REST::Google;

	# set service to use
	REST::Google->service('http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/services/search/web');

	# provide a valid http referer
	Search::Google->http_referer('http://example.com');

	my $res = REST::Google->new(
		q => 'Larry Wall',
	);

	die "response status failure" if $res->responseStatus != 200;

	my $data = $res->responseData;

	use Data::Dumper;
	print Dumper( $data );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<REST::Google> provides OO interface to Google REST (aka AJAX) API.

=head1 METHODS

=over

=item __PACKAGE__->service()

Get/set service to use. You must set this to valid URL. E.g.:

	REST::Google->service('http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/services/search/web');

=item __PACKAGE__->http_referer()

Get/set HTTP C<Referer> header.

	REST::Google->http_referer('http://example.org/search.html');

I<Note:> Google says that you should supply a valid HTTP referer header each time you
perform a request to their AJAX API, so C<new()> raises warning unless referer is specified.

=item __PACKAGE__->new()

The constructor use it's arguments to build a valid HTTP GET request to given service,
so it takes the same arguments as the given web service takes.
Please refer to 'Google AJAX API' documentation for complete list
of arguments for a service you're using. E.g.:

	my $res = REST::Google->new(
		q => 'Pamela Anderson',
	);

For example, if you're using the Web search service, the code above will perform a following HTTP GET request:

	http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/services/search/web?hl=fr&q=Pamela+Anderson&v=1.0&start=4

I<Note:> You can left protocol version number unspecified since C<v=1.0> is passed by default.

C<REST::Google> object are completely represent Google API response objects
and has the following structure:

	{
		"responseData" => {},
		"responseDetails" => undef | string-on-error,
		"responseStatus" => 200 | error-code
	}

=item $res->responseStatus()

The responseStatus property contains a value of 200 on success and a non-200
HTTP error status code on failure. If there is a failure, C<responseDetails> contains
a diagnostic string.

=item $res->responseDetails()

Contain an error string if C<responseStatus> is not 200.

=item $res->responseData()

Returns a C<responseData> structure.
Please refer to service API documentation for response structure details.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

C<REST::Google> uses L<JSON::Any> for decoding Google AJAX Search API response and L<LWP> for search request sending.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<http://code.google.com/p/rest-google/> - this project on Google code;

L<http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxsearch/documentation/#fonje> - information about
Google AJAX API in non-Javascript environments;

L<http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxsearch/documentation/reference.html#_intro_fonje> - detailed specification
for Google AJAX Search API.

L<Search::Google>, L<Translate::Google>, L<Feed::Google> provide OO interface to Google
services and use C<REST::Google> as base class.

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2008, Eugen Sobchenko <ejs@cpan.org> and Sergey Sinkovskiy <glorybox@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
